hi everyone this is laszlo Montgomery
I'd like to present a new podcast
program that I hope you'll enjoy in the
course of my research for the Chinese
history podcast i stumbled upon no small
number of original source material
written by 17th 18th and 19th century
Jesuits analogous adventurers world
explorers and many others they'd offer
up western observations about all their
experiences and things they witnessed in
China the one thing they all had in
common was that these works were mostly
all forgotten or at best remembered but
unread I thought as I took in some of
these writings what a shame that all
this stuff is languishing an antiquarian
book stores are buried in online
archives I discovered hundreds of these
books most of this material was written
by people you've probably never heard of
I certainly hadn't but these were people
who 100-200 years ago and more went to
China and wrote accounts of their
travels and what they saw some of the
stuff is priceless well when taken in
the context of our 21st century world
and China's great achievements in the
past decades some of the stuff is of
course Monday not terribly interesting
after all these years or its poorly
written but a lot of this material my
friends is outstanding some of these
eyewitness descriptions of interesting
things in China they saw or someone they
met an event they witnessed is dished up
in the most eloquent and entertaining
prose those who appreciate that old
style of writing know what I'm talking
about now i'm not here to glorify the
bad old days of imperialism when
Britannia ruled the waves or to
accentuate a Chinese nation that was
down on its luck during a period when a
lot of these books were written so
here's how it works each episode I'm
going to hand pick some passage from one
of these many works I have assiduously
sought out and curated I'll introduce it
briefly and set it up before presenting
it then depending on how much time is
needed to round up the our clothes
few remarks so I hope you'll like this
I'm going to make it my business to
track down the cream of the cream for
you there's a ton of stuff out there and
most if not all of it it's been locked
away in archives unseen and unread for a
long time here at the China vintage our
I'm going to mine these antiquarian
books that came out of that age and
bring you some of the more poignant
passages i came across a lot of nice
sized nuggets i'm going to begin the
china vintage hour with a series of
excerpts taken from the books written by
mr. robert fortune between 1847 and 1857
i thought this might be a good place to
begin since so many CHP listeners are
lovers and regular imbibers of tea the
life of robert fortune has been covered
in the ten-part CHP history of T series
starting with this inaugural episode
you'll get his story straight from the
horse's mouth and to everyone from the
China history podcast community who are
giving your humble narrator the benefit
of the doubt and checking this China
vintage our out giving me a little face
thank you for your ongoing listenership
and support some of you have been with
me since June of 2010 you can find this
China vintage shower as well as the
long-running China history podcast and
the Chinese sayings podcast at teacup
dot media consider teacup media for an
occasional dose of Chinese culture
teacup dot media I hope you enjoy the
program